[general]
name=Mayim Tools
qgisMinimumVersion=4.0
description=Mayim Tools - hydrology, rainfall and data processing tools for QGIS.
version=0.1.0
author=Mayim Consulting
email=chris@mayimconsulting.co.za

about=Mayim Tools is a QGIS Processing plugin developed by Mayim Consulting, providing a suite of hydrology, rainfall and data processing tools. Rainfall Tools group: Design Rainfall Estimation (South Africa); point extraction of CHIRPS, IMERG, MERRA-2 and CMORPH precipitation records; Precipitation data to DDF (rainfall frequency analysis); Precipitation data to Huff Curves; and DDF to Alternating Block Design Hyetographs. Data Tools group: GRIB to CSV conversion; NetCDF4 to CSV conversion (flatten or point extraction, for an arbitrary user-supplied NetCDF4 file) and its companion List NetCDF4 Variables discovery tool. Rainfall Tools group also includes Design Storm Ensembles, which builds Huff/ARR-style representative temporal storm pattern ensembles for 24 design durations and three AEP bands from a sub-daily rainfall record and a DDF table. Hydrological Tools group also includes D8 Flow Accumulation (WBT), an exact replication of WhiteboxTools' own D8FlowAccumulation tool that consumes either a raw DEM or this suite's own D8 Flow Direction plugin's pointer output directly. Rainfall Tools group also includes Extract: ERA5 precipitation, which reads ERA5/ERA5-Land total precipitation directly from the Copernicus Climate Data Store (CDS), for a point or point layer, over the full 1950-present record or a specified date range. v0.5.0 adds a second, selectable "Fast" access method using a separate, purpose-built CDS timeseries dataset - confirmed by live testing to retrieve the full 76-year record in around 40 seconds (versus multi-hour Standard-method runs) and to match the CDS website exactly; offered as an opt-in alternative, not the default, since ECMWF's own documentation labels that dataset experimental and not recommended for operational use. Hydrological Tools group also includes Catchment Delineation, which takes a D8 pointer and its DEM with pour points (snapped to flow accumulation) or pour lines and writes repaired catchment polygons (total or incremental), a catchment DEM, longest flow paths and a parameters report (area, shape, slopes, hypsometry, drainage density, and Kirpich, USBR/SANRAL and Bransby-Williams time of concentration). v0.2.0 adds geomorphometric parameters (Strahler stream order, bifurcation ratio, Melton ratio, relief ratio and more) and an optional Word (.docx) annexure report with parameter definitions, figures, a guideline-neutral catchment description and modelling considerations. v0.3.0 adds optional stream network (links split at junctions, with Strahler order, upstream area, slope and downstream link) and catchment centroid vector outputs. Rainfall Tools group also includes Storm Library & DDF Consistency Check, which scales every storm in a sub-daily gridded rainfall series (ERA5, IMERG, CMORPH...) to a reference gauge-based DDF at one anchor duration, measures whether the shorter bursts inside the storms then match the DDF (flatness index with bootstrap intervals), and writes a normalised storm library for Monte Carlo design-storm simulation.

tracker=https://github.com/chrismayim/mayim-tools/issues
repository=https://github.com/chrismayim/mayim-tools
homepage=https://github.com/chrismayim/mayim-tools

category=Analysis
icon=icons/mayim_logo.png

experimental=True
deprecated=False
